>> Steve Kinney: And so we'll implement
this in a moment, but let's look at it,
and then we'll talk about it.
Look at it, and then we'll do it,
which is put an unpredictable
value that you're checking for.
And there are some nuances to this, right?
For instance, if you put it with
the cookie, what did you even do,
[LAUGH] right?
Cuz it's getting sent along.
If you use the same one all the time,
cool,
they'll also hard code
that into their form.
There are ways that you can screw this up,
but
the idea is put some unpredictable value
in there that only you know, right?
And then you should be
in a better place but
any cheat that you do will
come back to bite you and so
far like actually we just got like
ten of them that we just rotate.
Good, now one tenth of your people
is susceptible to the attack, right?
And all the attacker needs to
do is go visit ten times and
get them all or whatever.
So there are ways that you can make this
not great for yourself, but yeah, and
you can put in the header when we put that
token in there like you saw before, but
you're like, I only have a single-page
app, or I can't set request headers.
You can put it also any HTTP header,
you can put in the actual markup too,
and that will count.
That works for CSP as well,
as you can Play before.
Cool, and so how do we solve this issue?
That's a great question.
I'm glad you all asked it.
Cool, so we've got that C-Surf bank, and
what we wanna do is basically put some
kind of token in that form that is unique.
So that even if someone
put a form on their page,
if they do not have our
secret little token,
then our server will be like,
get out of here, you're not real.
And so doing that is somewhat easy.
I will say though that
depending on what you look at,
there's a lot of stuff out
there that talks about
npm.im/csurf which was originally,
and again,
this is express specific, but
there's a lot of content out there.
It's like, yeah, yeah, you could just get
that csurf module and you put it in there.
Except it's not secure.
Luckily, I think these days,
NPM will yell at you and
it's marked as deprecated and
you can't do it.
But let me just save you the hassle for
when you go look this up later and
find out that you get a big red
screen when you go try to install it.
There's actually, I think I have a link
in the, there's one called Tiny CSurf,
which it does the same thing.
It's 20 lines of code, but spoiler alert,
it shoves it in the cookie, right?
So whatever, cool.
But we can implement
something similar as well.
And yes, one could argue there's
probably a lot of edge cases and
stuff along those lines.
But I think for the most part, we can
get a pretty simple version in place.
So let's go into our app.
And when they log in, this is kind of very
similar to the code we ended up with in
that story we were just playing around
with, where we have sessions now, right?
Or I guess a cookie jar, whatever.
We have sessions, that's for
the post, though.
Let's see.
All right, here we go.
And we make that rando session id.
And no one asked the question,
but I did prepare for
it,if someone did ask, so
I'm going to answer it anyway.
I wanna say can I just use a UUID for
a session token?
You can because what the UUID
uses under the hood node's crypto
module with a little bit
of extra bit shifting.
So you can use UUID, you can use whatever.
I could use both if I wanted to.
Let's actually just use
both because why not?
Just to show you the two
ways to do the same thing.
So there is a pretty popular
node library called UUID.
It's got a whole bunch
of different algorithms.
V4 has a very low chance of collision cuz
again, if you're gonna even source up in
the database with unique keys, it kind of
stinks if you actually crash into one.
Can you theoretically generate
two UUIDs that are the same?
You theoretically can.
And you can also, I don't know,
I could also throw a three pointer from
the other end of the court, possibly.
Right, it's not gonna happen.
And so we can do that as well.
And yeah, you can use either one.
You can use both, you can use them for
different reasons.
I don't really care what you do.
This is mostly as a mechanism which is
generating a different value, right?
Yeah.
>> Student: So I think, memory serves
the version is important also, right?
So V4 is relatively randomized,
it's very low risk in terms of collision.
Is version five is deterministic, right?
>> Steve Kinney: I think so.
>> Student: Which is one reason you would
wanna stay away from it in this scenario.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
I believe that's true.
I'm not gonna riff on crypto enough,
[LAUGH] and go, yes, totally, that is.
That jives my understanding as well.
And so we can go ahead, there's a bunch
of places you can store the token.
We know that the wrong answer
is doing it once and storing it.
It just hard code it into your app.
We know that's the wrong answer.
There's levels of nuance in between,
right?
So, for instance,
could you do it on every single request?
You could, right?
But that's if you got to store it for
the response.
Yeah, well, I guess you could
do it every single response, and
you've got to store it for
the next request.
So, that could be a lot of
rows in your database for
forms that no one's gonna submit, right?
With load on the database and
also in terms of storage, right?
So yeah, is that super secure, but
it also creates a bad UX if they
hit the back button, right?
And now the one on that back page is not
the current one or the two tabs open, or
something along those lines.
It can get weird.
You can come up with all sorts
of weird race conditions.
Hardcoding is wrong.
And so somewhere in the middle is for
the length of their session.
And if you're like, yo, we let them log
in for two years, okay, then maybe less.
But in this case,
our cookies are scoped to session.
We'll say for this session that you're
logged in, here's a token for you.
That way if it is the closest browser they
go to something else and then they hit
the attacking page, that session, this is
why we're not tying it to the user ID,
that session no longer exists
even though the user does.
So we'll say const token and
I pulled in uuid, right?
So we'll create a token and
I happen to know that this database
table already has a column for tokens.
And so we're not storing it with the user,
we're storing it with
the session in this case.
And I am no longer susceptible to
the obvious injection attacks.
I don't speak in absolute anymore.
Like only assist does that.
So we can throw in the tokens
of the database as well.
And you do need to then inter a third
value in there and the token.
Cool.
Now because I'm developing,
I do need to like my current actually no,
this, yeah, this session won't.
Token because when I made the session ID
the concept of a token didn't exis,t so
like my code will break,
break, yeah it'll break.
It just won't work it is it broken or
is it working as expected but
not what I want, all right, unclear.
That's a philosophical issue we can
deal with later so let's log out.
Cool, now we can go ahead and
say finnthehuman, and we'll say adventure.
I say we say that like I'm
guessing what the password is.
One thing that I have on these apps,
if you ever need it while you're like,
because again, I think that there are
things you can probably explain these or
string together, there is this that gives
you at least what's in the database.
So we can see that we've got the session
because I am deleting the sessions from
the database when they log out, right?
So now, we have a token in there,
that's uuid, we have a sessionId and
this is _ _meta on all the example
apps that exists, right?
So if you're ever like,
what is in my database?
You can go here and see as well.
Ultimately, if you forget what
the username and password is too,
it'll also work.
It's just running through
the database tables.
Cool, cool, cool.
And so now I've got this token.
Now, having a secret token and
not doing anything with it
does not get you very far.
So now what we need to do is Express
has this idea of middleware,
it's gonna be different depending on
what your server side technology is,
but honestly, it's the same basic idea.
And so I can go into this current user and
we grab the session ID from the cookie.
And then we go ahead and
we try to pull that user.
I guess what we would need to
do is get the session as well.
And, I mean, we don't necessarily have to
do it in the middle where actually now I
think about it.
And let's go ahead.
We only really needed for that transfer.
Over that, yeah, the transfer page, right?
Is that what it's called?
Yeah, login, transfer, that's post get.
So this page right here, if I go back,
I know slash account,
let's do slash account.
[SOUND] The account.
So here we need to go get that token
as well, cuz we need to, like,
pass it into the form, right?
So we can go ahead and
we can say something like,
>> Steve Kinney: Let
me think about this for a second.
So I've got the session getting the user,
yeah, I'm not doing anything else here.
So let's do a,
>> Steve Kinney: Token
equals get and we can say,
select ocean, yeah, this will work.
Select the token from sessions
where the user ID is, this,
I think like the way that SQLite
works is that it's on the object and
we need to use await.
I'm just gonna console log that
real quick cause just make sure
I didn't live code SQL wrong.
Cuz I've never done that before.
I've never accidentally,
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
yep, there's my token, cool.
So now we have it, and all we need
to do is render it on the page, so
I can go ahead and pass in that the token,
you could call it CSRF token,
if that, the naming is depending on
the other stuff going on your app,
whatever makes you happiest,
you can do so.
Now we've got this, we're gonna render it.
We're passing the token to the page,
so we can also go into this account.
And then, if you are using forms,
this will work.
If you're using Ajax and
you need to maybe grab it,
grab that token with JavaScript and
include it in the request somehow.
But we're using a regular form,
so we can totally do this.
So we'll go into the form.
And then this is where you
can just kind of pop in.
If you look at a lot of regular forms,
here it's called CSRF.
I think I only called it token before,
right?
It's effectively a hidden field, right?
And so because this has the name
underscore CSRF even though it's not
visibly apparent in the form, it will
be submitted with the rest of the form
data right along with the name for
mount and the name for the recipient.
You will also now get this
token in there as well.
Okay, we generate a token.
We hit it in the form.
Until we validate that token,
it doesn't really help us too much either,
so we need to get that as well.
>> Steve Kinney: I regret putting
on my page now, but whatever.
I'll tell you what the alternative
was in a second, but
like this is the perils of live coding.
Sometimes you make choices and you have
to live with them in front of people.
So we've got the token there and
then we could say that on the POST
request,
>> Steve Kinney: I think of the POST is
the transfer, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Transfer, right?
We can go ahead and we can also,
again, get that same token, right?
Cuz it's attached to
the session at this point.
So as long as they still
got the same code,
we get the same token, and
we can say, I hate myself.
All right,
one change that we're gonna make, again,
the perils of live coding
is we're gonna say that.
We named it CSRF.
I'm smart, I did a good thing.
So we'll say if the token that they
have stored in the database does not
equal the csrf token that we got here.
>> Steve Kinney: Then in that case,
what we're gonna say is, yeah.
So we're gonna just say unauthorized.
I don't need to tell them why.
You send me a voc, risk request a token,
I don't need to leak information
out to people honestly.
Now, if it is important in your client
side code to explain what happened for
error reporting, but again,
every piece of information you give
away is some clue on how to
thwart your best efforts.
When they log in, we create a token.
We hide that token on the form.
If they don't have the right token,
cuz this is some rando page that someone
sent me a mess with me, and a token
I only see in my version of the page,
then we get to the point where I should
have a relatively safer experience.
Cool.
And so let's see.
So now if I go in here, I should,
I don't think I have to re-log in.
Let's send $12.
Cool, that worked.
And then if I go to that slash evil again,
unauthorized, right?.
It so the attack didn't work
because they didn't have the token,
it rejected it outright.
And this is technically on the same site.
Because I'm trying,
I'm not worried about the cookies, but
I'm trying to show the token,
the cookies would have been sent, but
I'm still protected, even if somehow the
cookies are sent to the request, right?
All of my like, I've messed up cookie
attributes by accident somehow, right?
All the security issues that I've
dealt with in the last year or
two is someone made a boo-boo,
not somebody was reckless.
And so
if they made a boo-boo with a cookie,
I'm still protected by another layer.
If someone made a boo-boo with a token,
then the cookie protects me.
The idea is you can make
a boo-boo in one area and
not compromise your user's security.